The document is an observation general on the right of everyone to take part in cultural life (article 15, paragraph 1 (a), of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights). It provides an interpretation of article 15, paragraph 1 (a) and the obligations of States parties. It states that cultural rights are an integral part of human rights and are essential for human dignity and positive social interaction. It sees culture as an inclusive concept that includes all expressions of human existence. The right to take part in cultural life includes the right to participate, access and contribute to cultural life. States have obligations to respect, protect and fulfill this right. 

Cultural rights and definitions:

1. The right to take part in cultural life: This includes the right of everyone (alone, in association with others or within a community or group) to act freely; choose one's own identity; identify or not identify with one or several communities; change one's choice; participate in political life; exercise one's own cultural practices; and express oneself in the language of one's choice. It also includes the right to seek, develop and share knowledge and cultural expressions, as well as to act creatively and take part in creative activities. 

2. The right of access to cultural life: This includes the right of everyone (alone, in association with others or within a community or group) to know and understand one's own culture and that of others; receive education and training of good quality with full respect for one's cultural identity; know forms of expression and dissemination through any technological medium; follow a lifestyle associated with the use of cultural goods and resources; and benefit from cultural heritage and the creations of others.

3. The right to contribute to cultural life: This refers to the right of everyone to contribute to the creation of spiritual, material, intellectual and emotional expressions of the community. It also includes the right to participate in the development of the community to which one belongs and in defining, formulating and implementing policies and decisions that have an impact on the exercise of one's cultural rights.

4. Cultural diversity: The protection of cultural diversity is an ethical imperative inseparable from respect for human dignity. It implies a commitment to human rights and fundamental freedoms and requires the full realization of cultural rights, including the right to take part in cultural life. Cultural diversity is a means to achieve a more satisfactory intellectual, emotional, moral and spiritual existence.

5. Cultural heritage: Cultural heritage must be preserved, developed, enriched and transmitted to future generations as a record of human experience and aspirations, in order to nourish creativity in all its diversity and to encourage genuine dialogue between cultures."